Extend Wordpress blog post (#354)
kyma-project/website: content/blog-posts/2019-06-14-extend-wordpress/index.md

Now download and install (Plugins -> Add new -> Upload plugin), and activate these 2 plugins:
- [Basic Auth](https://github.com/WP-API/Basic-Auth/archive/master.zip) - for more details go for [GitHub repository](https://github.com/WP-API/Basic-Auth)
- [Kyma Connector](https://github.com/kyma-incubator/wordpress-connector/archive/master.zip) - for more details go for [GitHub repository](https://github.com/kyma-incubator/wordpress-connector)

Go to Settings -> Kyma Connector, uncheck Verify SSL option (you need it because default Kyma installation uses self-signed certificates), and provide username and password you created during installation, and save changes. 

# Connect Wordpress to Kyma

In this step you will establish trusted connection between Wordpress instance and your Kubernetes cluster. You will also register Wordpress API and Wordpress Events in Service Catalog, and enable both in selected namespace.

In Kyma console navigate back to home and go to Applications, and create new one named `wordpress`.

> Open it and press Connect Application link. Copy connection token URL to the clipboard. Go to wordpress Kyma Connector Settings, and paste token URL in Kyma Connection field, and press Connect button. You should see the success message in wordpress and you should see new entry inside Provided Services & Events section of worpdress application in Kyma.

Reviewer: How to I get to the "wordpress Kyma Connector settings"?

Author: Described in previous paragraph.

If you start a new, green field project you are lucky - you can dive into the great variety of tools and frameworks and use them. But how to pick the right tools? At the moment of writing this post, there is 686 projects registered in the [CNCF landscape](https://landscape.cncf.io/).

We have also less lucky developers, that still has to deal with the applications designed when monoliths where cool. What about them? Can they benefit from Cloud Native patterns? Yes, they can!
<!-- overview -->

# Imagine your legacy application
You probably have some applications you have to integrate with or extend it features, but you are not happy with it.You can have different reasons:
- it requires writing code in the language you don't know, and you want to use only Golang or JavaScript
- it is possible to add new feature to the application but requires complex redeployment process which is risky
- you just don't want to touch it because it is fragile and adding anything can make it unstable
- you want to write extension which can be scaled independently of the application

# Wordpress as an example

> I prepared some example to help your imagination. The simple scenario with Wordpress as a legacy application. Imagine you are running some commerce site and you created a blog with product reviews and tests based on Wordpress. Now you want to engage your customers and you enabled comments in your blog posts. Users should see their comments immediately published, but you don't have time to moderate the content. The idea is to publish only positive comments automatically, and send send other comments to some channel where customer service can react (slack channel will be used for that).

Reviewer 2: I guess that one was skipped.

> You could use Wordpress hook `comment_post` and implement a plugin in PHP. But it won't work for me. I don't know PHP, and my team mates don't either. I would like to use external systems (text analytics, slack, maybe more int he future), and I don't want to deal with secrets and authorization flows in Wordpress side. Additionally, I want to utilize all modern DevOps practices and patterns, like [12 Factor App](https://12factor.net). In other words: me and my team want to do cool, cloud native stuff on top of Kubernetes, instead of be wordpress maintainers.

Reviewer 2: This one as well.

Of course in this simple scenario, microservices, Kubernetes, service mesh, and other tools would be overkill, but real world use cases are more complex, and you can imagine how this initial flow can grow in the future.

# Implementation plan

Let's implement and deploy our example. I will use:
- Kubernetes cluster from Google Kubernetes Engine to deploy both Wordpress and my code.
- KNative eventing and NATS as a messaging middleware to decouple Wordpress from my extension
- Istio service mesh together with Prometheus, Grafana and Jaeger to get monitoring and tracing
- Kubeless as serverless engine for my code
- Grafana Loki for keeping logs
- Service Catalog, Wordpress Connector for Kyma and Kyma Application Broker to bind Wordpress API and Events to my code

# Installation
From the list above you can expect long installation process, but I will use Kyma operator that will do it for me. All you need before, is Google Account and GCP Project. If you don't have one you can create it and additionally Google will give you $300 credit for running your cluster.

## Prepare the GKE cluster with Kyma

> Follow the [installation guide](https://kyma-project.io/docs/1.2/root/kyma/#installation-install-kyma-on-a-cluster) for GKE or just execute the following commands (replace placeholders with proper values):

Reviewer 2: Just a note, Kyma on [GCP Marketplace](https://console.cloud.google.com/marketplace/details/sap-public/kyma?q=kyma%20project) is still in version 1.0 (waiting for the 1.2 release) and this is the default instruction in the cluster installation doc.

export GCP_PROJECT={YOUR_GCP_PROJECT}           # myproject
export GCP_ZONE={GCP_ZONE_TO_DEPLOY_TO}         # europe-west1-b

# Create cluster
gcloud container --project "$GCP_PROJECT" clusters \
create "$CLUSTER_NAME" --zone "$GCP_ZONE" \
--cluster-version "1.12" --machine-type "n1-standard-4" \
--addons HorizontalPodAutoscaling,HttpLoadBalancing

# Add current user as admin
gcloud container clusters get-credentials $CLUSTER_NAME --zone $GCP_ZONE --project $GCP_PROJECT
kubectl create clusterrolebinding cluster-admin-binding --clusterrole=cluster-admin --user=$(gcloud config get-value account)

# Install tiller
kubectl apply -f https://raw.githubusercontent.com/kyma-project/kyma/$KYMA_VERSION/installation/resources/tiller.yaml

# Install Kyma
kubectl apply -f https://github.com/kyma-project/kyma/releases/download/$KYMA_VERSION/kyma-installer-cluster.yaml

# Show Kyma installation progress (stop the script with Ctrl+C, when installation is done)
while true; do \
  kubectl -n default get installation/kyma-installation -o jsonpath="{'Status: '}{.status.state}{', description: '}{.status.description}"; echo; \
  sleep 5; \
done
```

> ## Access Kyma

Author: Note added.

---
title: "How to build cloud-native extension for Wordpress - part 1"
author:
  name:  "Piotr Bochynski, Product Owner @Kyma"
tags:

>   - release

Reviewer 3: change the tag to something new
`technology` ?
`tutorial` ?
or both?

Author: both :)

```bash
# After the installation, add Kyma self-signed certificate to the trusted certificates (MacOS):
tmpfile=$(mktemp /tmp/temp-cert.XXXXXX) \
&& kubectl get configmap net-global-overrides -n kyma-installer -o jsonpath='{.data.global\.ingress\.tlsCrt}' | base64 --decode > $tmpfile \
&& sudo security add-trusted-cert -d -r trustRoot -k /Library/Keychains/System.keychain $tmpfile \
&& rm $tmpfile
```

These commands will display Console URL, login and password:
```bash
echo 'Kyma Console Url:'
echo `kubectl get virtualservice core-console -n kyma-system -o jsonpath='{ .spec.hosts[0] }'`

echo 'User admin@kyma.cx, password:'
echo `kubectl get secret admin-user -n kyma-system -o jsonpath="{.data.password}" | base64 --decode`
```
The result should be something like this:
```console
Kyma Console Url:
console.1.2.3.4.xip.io
User admin@kyma.cx, password:
Eca23NyShqwK
```
Now you can open Kyma Console Url in the browser and log in with provided credentials. 

![Kyma Console](./console.png)

## Wordpress installation
If you already have wordpress installed you can go to the next step. If not you can easily deploy wordpress with few clicks in Kyma console.

> First, create namespace for wordpress.  Then download the wordpress deployment file: [wordpress-deployment.yaml](wordpress-deployment.yaml) (it is recommended to change the `mysql-pass` secret). Then go to the namespace wordpress and click **Deploy new resource to the namespace** link, and select wordpress-deployment.yaml file from your disk.

Reviewer 3: tbh, I think you would have less text and better flow if the `secret` part would be taken away from the file, and done as a code snippet. So less text cause the only flow is to provide own password really.

So you tell the user to first specify the password, then apply it to the system and that is it. Less text more action
```bash
export $PASSWORD=UzNjdXJlUEBzcw==
```

```bash
cat <<EOF | kubectl apply -f -
apiVersion: v1
kind: Secret
type: Opaque
metadata:
  name: mysql-pass
data:
  password: "$PASSWORD"
EOF

# Create namespace
kubectl create namespace wordpress
# Deploy wordpress (master)
kubectl -n wordpress apply -f https://raw.githubusercontent.com/kyma-project/website/master/content/blog-posts/2019-06-14-extend-wordpress/wordpress-deployment.yaml
```

Author: Removed that completely, as mysql is not exposed to the outside word. Even shorter.

        let score = result.comparative;
        if (score>0.2) {
            status = "approved"
        } 
        updateComment(comment.id, status, comment.content.raw, score);
    }
};

async function getComment(id) {
    let commentUrl = `${process.env.WP_GATEWAY_URL}/wp/v2/comments/${id}?context=edit`
    let response = await axios.get(commentUrl);
    return response.data;
}

async function updateComment(id, status, comment, score) {
    let commentUrl = `${process.env.WP_GATEWAY_URL}/wp/v2/comments/${id}`;
    const update = await axios.post(commentUrl,{status:status, content:comment+"\n--\nscore:"+score});
    return update;
}
```

In the dependencies section add:
```json
{
  "dependencies": {
    "axios": "^0.19.0",
    "sentiment": "^5.0.1"
  }
}
```
Select trigger for your function - event `comment.post`, and save the function (the trigger is available because you have Wordpress Service Instance in the default namespace)

# Binding

Go to Service Management -> Instances, open wordpress instance in the Services tab. Click *Bind Application*, select *local-review* function, set namespace prefix to `WP_`, and confirm.

> ![Binding](./binding.png)

Author: Rename to `review`

> You can now open again local-review lambda and check if there is a new entry in Service Bindings section with WP_GATEWAY_URL environment variable.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
You can now open the `local-review` lambda again and check if there is a new entry in **Service Bindings** section with `WP_GATEWAY_URL` environment variable.
```

# Test it

> Go to Wordpress main site and open *Hello World!* blog post. Add there 2 comments:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Go to WordPress main site and open the **Hello World!** blog post. Add the following 2 comments under the blog post:
```

- I love it!
- I hate it!

> Go to wordpress dashboard and check the comments. You should see that both comments have score footer with the sentiment value (1 for positive and -1 for negative comment), and negative comment is waiting for moderation.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Go to the WordPress **Dashboard** and check the comments. You should see that both comments have a score footer with the following sentiment values:
- `1` for a positive comment
- `-1` for a negative comment
The negative comment is waiting for moderation.
```

![Comments](./comments.png)

# Explore the benefits

> Your code is running in Istio service mesh with the network secured by mutual TLS. You can see the metrics from your function (latency, responses, errors and memory usage) with one click on Grafana Dashboard. You can trace your requests using Jaeger. And you can scale your functions independently from Wordpress.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Your code runs using Istio Service Mesh with network secured by mutual TLS. You can see the metrics of your functions, such as latency, responses, errors and memory usage, with one click on Grafana Dashboard. You can trace your requests using Jaeger. And you can scale your functions independently from WordPress.
```

# Summary

> Why should you try Kyma? If you start a new project on Kubernetes, you will get carefully selected, best tools from Cloud Native landscape, already configured and integrated. If you want to move only part of your project to the cloud and you have to keep legacy application around, Kyma will help you to build extension for them using modern tools on top of Kubernetes.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Why should you try Kyma? If you start a new project on Kubernetes, you will get carefully selected and best tools from the Cloud Native Landscape, which are already configured and integrated. If you want to move only a part of your project to the cloud and you have to keep legacy applications around, Kyma will help you to build extensions for them using modern tools on top of Kubernetes.
```

> Also when you start a new project with the goal that final solution should be extendable and customizable consindering Kyma to address these challanges from day one would offer some benefits. 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Also when you start a new project with a goal that the final solution should be extendable and customizable, considering Kyma to address these challenges from day one would offer benefits. 
```

> Please remember that Kyma is actively developed open source project (~80 contributors and ~600 github stars) with the support from such big company as SAP. 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Please remember that Kyma is an open-source project which is actively developed (~80 contributors and ~600 GitHub stars) with the support from such a big company as SAP. 
```

---
title: "Build a cloud-native extension for WordPress"
author:
  name:  "Piotr Bochynski, Product Owner @Kyma"
tags:
  - technology
  - tutorial
redirectFrom:

>   - "/blog/2019-06-14-extend-wordpress"

Reviewer 2: the date needs updating

```bash
# When the installation finishes, add a Kyma self-signed certificate to the trusted certificates (MacOS):
tmpfile=$(mktemp /tmp/temp-cert.XXXXXX) \
&& kubectl get configmap net-global-overrides -n kyma-installer -o jsonpath='{.data.global\.ingress\.tlsCrt}' | base64 --decode > $tmpfile \
&& sudo security add-trusted-cert -d -r trustRoot -k /Library/Keychains/System.keychain $tmpfile \
&& rm $tmpfile
```

Run these commands to display the Console URL, login, and password:
```bash
echo 'Kyma Console Url:'
echo `kubectl get virtualservice core-console -n kyma-system -o jsonpath='{ .spec.hosts[0] }'`

echo 'User admin@kyma.cx, password:'
echo `kubectl get secret admin-user -n kyma-system -o jsonpath="{.data.password}" | base64 --decode`
```
You should get a similar result:
```console
Kyma Console Url:
console.1.2.3.4.xip.io
User admin@kyma.cx, password:
Eca23NyShqwK
```
You can now open the Kyma Console URL in the browser and log in with the provided credentials. 

![Kyma Console](./console.png)

## WordPress installation
If you already have WordPress installed, you can go to the next step. If not, you can easily deploy WordPress with a few commands:
```bash

> # Create namespace

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
# Create a Namespace
```

kubectl create namespace wordpress

> # Deploy wordpress

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
# Deploy WordPress
```

## Kyma plugin for WordPress

Before you install plugins, ensure that you have the proper configuration of Permalinks. Log into WordPress as an admin, go to **Settings** -> **Permalinks**, select the `Post name` option and save your changes.
Download the following plugins:
- [Basic Auth](https://github.com/WP-API/Basic-Auth/archive/master.zip) - for more details go to this [GitHub repository](https://github.com/WP-API/Basic-Auth)
- [Kyma Connector](https://github.com/kyma-incubator/wordpress-connector/archive/master.zip) - for more details go to this [GitHub repository](https://github.com/kyma-incubator/wordpress-connector)
In the left navigation, go to **Plugins** -> **Add New** -> **Upload Plugin**. Choose the Basic Auth and Kyma Connector plugins from your disk to install and activate them.
Go to **Settings** -> **Kyma Connector**, uncheck the **Verify SSL** option (you need it because the default Kyma installation uses self-signed certificates), provide the username and password you created during the installation, and save your changes. 

![Kyma Connector](./kyma-connector.png)

# Connect WordPress to Kyma

> In this step you establish a trusted connection between the wordpress instance and your Kyma cluster, both hosted on the same Kubernetes cluster. You also register WordPress API and WordPress Events in the Service Catalog and enable both in a selected Namespace.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In this step you establish a trusted connection between the WordPress instance and your Kyma cluster, both hosted on the same Kubernetes cluster. You also register WordPress API and WordPress Events in the Service Catalog and enable both in a selected Namespace.
```

In the Kyma Console navigate back to the home page, go to **Applications**, and create a new Application called `wordpress`.

> Open it and press **Connect Application**. Copy the connection token URL to clipboard. Go to  the Kyma Connector Settings in WordPress, paste the token URL in the **Kyma Connection** field, and press **Connect**. You should see the success message in WordPress and a new entry inside the Provided Services & Events section of the `wordpress` Application in Kyma.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Open it and press **Connect Application**. Copy the connection token URL to the clipboard. Go to the Kyma Connector Settings in WordPress, paste the token URL in the **Kyma Connection** field, and press **Connect**. You should see the success message in WordPress and a new entry inside the **Provided Services & Events** section of the `wordpress` Application in Kyma.
```

Reviewer 2: There was also an additional space that I removed in the suggestion above.

![Application](./application.png)

## Diasable SSL for Kyma->WordPress

WordPress installed in a cluster uses a self-signed SSL certificate. Kyma default settings don't allow for such a connection. You need to explicitly turn it on:

  1. Edit the `wordpress-application-gateway` Deployment in the `kyma-integration` Namespace. Run:
      ```
      kubectl -n kyma-integration edit deployment wordpress-application-gateway
      ```
  2. Edit the Deployment in Vim. Select `i` to start editing.
  3. Find the **skipVerify** parameter and change its value to `true`.
  4. Press **ESC**, type `:wq`, and click **ENTER** to write and quit.

One command to do it:
```bash
# Update kyma installer image to 1.1.0
kubectl -n kyma-integration \
  patch deployment wordpress-application-gateway --type=json \
  -p='[{"op": "replace", "path": "/spec/template/spec/containers/0/args/6", "value": "--skipVerify=true"}]'
```
>**CAUTION:** The command assumes that **skipVerify** is the argument with the index 6 (0-based).

> # Enable WordPress Events and APIs in the `default` Namespace

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
# Enable WordPress Events and APIs in the default Namespace
```

> The Kyma Application connectivity can expose APIs and Events (Async API) of Applications in the Service Catalog. To show WordPress in the Service Catalog, first, you need to bind the Application to a selected Namespace. Go to **Applications**, select the `wordpress` Application, press **Create Binding** and select the `default` Namespace. Now go to the `default` Namespace and open the Catalog - you should see WordPress API in the Services tab. Open it and have a look at API console and Events specification. We will react on `comment.post.v1` event and interact with `/wp/v2/comments/{id}` API. To make them available in the `default` Namespace click the **Add once** button and create an instance of the WordPress Service Class. Behind the scenes, the Application Connector creates the Application Gateway (a kind of proxy) that forwards requests from bounded services or functions to the wordpress instance. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Kyma Application connectivity can expose APIs and Events (Async API) of Applications in the Service Catalog. To show WordPress in the Service Catalog, first, you need to bind the Application to a selected Namespace. Go to **Applications**, select the `wordpress` Application, press **Create Binding** and select the `default` Namespace. Now go to the `default` Namespace and open the Catalog - you should see WordPress API in the **Services** tab. Open it and have a look at API console and Events specification. We will react on `comment.post.v1` event and interact with `/wp/v2/comments/{id}` API. To make them available in the `default` Namespace click the **Add once** button and create an instance of the WordPress Service Class. Behind the scenes, the Application Connector creates the Application Gateway (a kind of proxy) that forwards requests from bounded services or functions to the WordPress instance. 
```

``` javascript
const Sentiment = require('sentiment');
const sentiment = new Sentiment();
const axios = require("axios");

module.exports = {
    main: async function (event, context) {
        let status = "hold";
        console.log("Event data: %s",JSON.stringify(event.data));
        let comment = await getComment(event.data.commentId);
        console.log("Comment: %s",comment.content.raw);
        let result = sentiment.analyze(comment.content.raw);
        console.log("Sentiment: %s",JSON.stringify(result));
        let score = result.comparative;
        if (score>0.2) {
            status = "approved"
        } 
        updateComment(comment.id, status, comment.content.raw, score);
    }
};

async function getComment(id) {
    let commentUrl = `${process.env.WP_GATEWAY_URL}/wp/v2/comments/${id}?context=edit`
    let response = await axios.get(commentUrl);
    return response.data;
}

async function updateComment(id, status, comment, score) {
    let commentUrl = `${process.env.WP_GATEWAY_URL}/wp/v2/comments/${id}`;
    const update = await axios.post(commentUrl,{status:status, content:comment+"\n--\nscore:"+score});
    return update;
}
```

> In the **Dependencies** section add:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In the **Dependencies** section, add:
```

```json
{
  "dependencies": {
    "axios": "^0.19.0",
    "sentiment": "^5.0.1"
  }
}
```

> Press **Select Function Trigger**, choose your function which is the `comment.post` event, and save the function. The trigger is available because you have the wordpress service instance in the `default` Namespace). 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Press **Select Function Trigger**, choose your function which is the `comment.post` Event, and save the function. The trigger is available because you have the WordPress service instance in the `default` Namespace. 
```

# Binding

> Go to **Instances** under the **Service Management**, open the wordpress instance in the Services tab. Click **Bind Application**, select `local-review` function, set the **Prefix namespace value** to `WP_`, and confirm.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Go to **Instances** under the **Service Management**, open the WordPress instance in the **Services** tab. Click **Bind Application**, select `local-review` function, set the **Prefix namespace value** to `WP_`, and confirm.
```

![Binding](./binding.png)

> You can now open the `local-review` lambda again and check if there is a new entry in **Service Bindings** section with `WP_GATEWAY_URL` environment variable.

Reviewer 2: There is still a difference between App name in the screenshot and the text (`local-review` in two places in the text vs `review` on the screenshot)

Author: done
